OAuth (pronounced “oh-auth”, short for Open Authentication) is a technological standard that allows you to share information between services without exposing your password. - Hewlett Packard
OAuth is an open standard for access delegation, commonly used as a way for internet users to grant websites or applications access to their information on other websites but without giving them the passwords. - Wikipedia
OAuth is an open-standard authorization protocol or framework that describes how unrelated servers and services can safely allow authenticated access to their assets without actually sharing the initial, related, single logon credential. - CSOOnline

OAuth is like a velt key to your car - Varonis.com

OAuth 2 architecture are
  the resource owner (user)
  the Client (interfaced web-app)
  the authorization server (Intuit? or same as API)
  the resource server (API)

Token vs API key
The main distinction between these two is: 
  API keys identify the calling project — the application or site — making the call to an API. 
  (Authentication) tokens identify a user — the person — that is using the app or site.

The two token types involved in OAuth 2 authentication are Access Token and Refresh Token.

OAuth vs Single Sign On (SSO)
To Start, OAuth is not the same thing as SSO. 
While they have some similarities — they are very different. OAuth is an authorization protocol. 
SSO is a high-level term used to describe a scenario in which a user uses the same credentials to access multiple domains.

JSON Web Token (JWT) is a compact URL-safe means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties.
JWT is mainly used for APIs while OAuth can be used for web, browser, API, and various apps or resources. 
JWT token vs oauth token: 
  JWT defines a token format while 
  OAuth deals in defining authorization protocols. 
  JWT is simple and easy to learn from the initial stage while 
  OAuth is complex.
a JWT consists of three parts: a header, payload, and signature.
JWT is excellent for API authentication and server-to-server authorization, OAuth 2.0 takes the lead in session management.

SAML supports both user authentication and authorization while OAuth is only for authorization. 
If the business priority is confirming user identity, SAML is the only choice. 
If the business priority is securely and easily managing user privileges, OAuth may be the better choice

There are two versions of OAuth authorization (ref: SOAPui.org)
  OAuth 1 (using HMAC-SHA signature strings)
    Hash-based Message Authentication Code (HMAC)
    Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA)
  OAuth 2 (using tokens over HTTPS)

About SHA - functions introduced in 1993 by National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) as a U.S. Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 
A cryptographic hash (sometimes called ‘digest’) is a kind of ‘signature’ for a text or a data file. SHA-256 generates an almost-unique 256-bit (32-byte) signature for a text. 
for the source code - https://www.movable-type.co.uk/scripts/sha256.html#src-code

Other:
Hydra is the most advanced OAuth 2.0 and OIDC Certified® Server, and the only one that is open source. It integrates with any login system and allows you to interface with any application, anywhere. - Ory Hydra
